.TH RFS 1 "March 2023" "RFS 1.x" "User Commands"
.SH NAME
rfs \- Send an RFS command to a snaprfs server
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B rfs
[\fIOPTIONS\fR] \fICOMMAND\fR <param1> <param2> ... <paramN>
.SH DESCRIPTION
The \fBrfs(1)\fR tool is used to send orders to the snaprfs service to
manage the service. In most cases, the snaprfs service works on its own.
However, at times it can be practical to send a file over to multiple
computers and the \fBrfs(1)\fR tool can be used for that purpose.

The tool supports the following commands:

.TP
\fBconfiguration-filenames\fR
Retrieve a list of the files that are loaded to configure the snaprfs
process.

.TP
\fBcp\fR \fISOURCES...\fR \fIDESTINATION\fR
Copy the list of source files to the destination.

.TP
\fBdup\fR \fISOURCE\fR \fIDESTINATIONS...\fR
Copy source to all the specified destinations.

.TP
\fBlist\fR \fISOURCES...\fR
Read the list of files accessible from each specified source.

.TP
\fBmv\fR \fISOURCES...\fR \fIDESTINATION\fR
Send the list of source files to the destination and remove them from the
source location on success.

.TP
\fBping\fR \fISOURCE\fR
Ping a snaprfs server to make sure it is alive.

.TP
\fBrm\fR \fIDESTINATIONS...\fR
Remove (delete, unlink, erase) the specified list of files.

.TP
\fBstat\fR \fISOURCES...\fR
Read the status of each source file and get the last modification time,
permissions, etc.

.TP
\fBstop\fR \fIDESTINATION\fR
Stop the specified destination.

.TP
\fBversion\fR
Check the version of the known snaprfs servers.

.TP
\fB--mode\fR \fImode\fR \fB<command>\fR [\fISOURCES...\fR] [\fIDESTINATIONS...\fR]
The \fB--mode\fR special command can be used to define a user command.
In most cases, this is only useful when trying to send a command to
a remote instance which has a newer version than your local instance.

To use this option, you must define the \fB--mode\fR with one of:

.RS
.IP "0:0"
\-\- no sources and no destinations are allowed along this command
.IP "1:0"
\-\- one source and no destinations are allowed
.IP "0:1"
\-\- no sources and one destination are allowed
.IP "1:1"
\-\- exactly one source and one destination are allowed
.IP "1:*"
\-\- exactly one source and any number of destinations are allowed
.IP "*:1"
\-\- any number of sources and exactly one destination are allowed
.IP "*:0"
\-\- any number of sources are allowed
.IP "0:*"
\-\- any number of destinations are allowed
.RE

.SH "SECURITY"
The \fBrfs(1)\fR tool has no security in place. Anyone can send/receive
files as long as there is a snaprfs service running on their computer.
It is only expected to be used in a server environment where only
services and trusted administrator have access to the tool.

.SH "COMMAND LINE OPTIONS"
A set of command line options are viewed as commands like the above. These
are described here. For example, the \fI--version\fR command line option
can be used to check the version of this tool.

.TP
\fB\-\-build\-date\fR
Display the date and time when the \fBrfs(1)\fR tool was last built.

.TP
\fB\-\-command\-help\fR
List the commands that use a '\-\-' introducer.

The \fBrfs(1)\fR tool understands other commands that are not written
with the `\-\-' introducer. See the \fBDESCRIPTION\fR section for a
complete list of these commands.

.TP
\fB\-\-compiler\-version\fR
Output the version information of the C++ compiler used to compile the
`snaprfs' project.

.TP
\fB\-\-configuration\-filenames\fR
List the files loaded to configure the \fBrfs(1)\fR tool. These are loaded
before the command line options get parsed.

.TP
\fB\-C\fR, \fB\-\-copyright\fR
Print out the copyright notice of the `iplock' tool.

.TP
\fB\-\-long\-help\fR
Print a completely list of all the supported command line options.

.TP
\fB\-\-environment\-variable\-name\fR
Print the name of the variable to the console. This variable can be used
to enter options instead of writing them on the command line or the
configuration file. Commands are not allowed in the environment variable.

.TP
\fB\-\-has\-sanitizer\fR
Print whether this version was compiled with the C++ compiler sanitizer.

.TP
\fB\-h\fR, \fB\-\-help\fR
Print a brief document about the tool usage, then exit.

.TP
\fB\-L\fR, \fB\-\-license\fR
Print out the license of `iplock' and exit.

.TP
\fB--list-appenders\fR
List the available appenders as used by the logger.

.TP
\fB\-\-list\-severities\fR
List the available severities as used by the logger.

.TP
\fB\-\-logger\-configuration\-filenames\fR
List the files that the logger reads to be setup. If no files are found,
then messages appear in the console by default.

.TP
\fB\-\-logger\-version\fR
Print out the version of the Snap! Logger and exit.

.TP
\fB\-\-mode\fR \fImode\fR \fB<command>\fR [\fISOURCES...\fR] [\fIDESTINATIONS...\fR]
As described above, the \fB\-\-mode\fR option allows you to define a user
defined command to send to a service which understands it even if your
\fBrfs(1)\fR tool does not yet implement that command.

The \fImode\fR value is one of the modes described above. It defines how
many sources and destinations your command supports.

The \fB<command>\fR value is the user defined command.

The SOURCES... and DESTINATIONS... depend on the mode. You may have zero,
one, or many of either although you cannot have many of both at the same
time.

.TP
\fB\-\-option\-help\fR
Print the list of options supported by `iplock'.

.TP
\fB\-\-path\-to\-option\-definitions\fR
Option definitions can be defined in a .ini file. If it exists, this is the
path where it can be found.

.TP
\fB\-\-print\-option\fR \fIname\fR
This option is useful to debug your command line, environment variable, and
configuration files by printing the value of the named option. This tells
you what value the tool or service sees in the end.

.TP
\fB\-\-show\-option\-sources\fR
The `advgetopt' library has the ability to trace where each value is
read from: which file, the command line, the environment variable.
This option can be used to determine where a value is defined, which once
in a while is particularly useful.

.TP
\fB\-\-system\-help\fR
Show system specific help. By default these help command line options are
hidden. Most of these are added by libraries that your tool uses, such as
the logger and the command line parser.

.TP
\fB\-V\fR, \fB\-\-version\fR
Print the `rfs' version number, then exit.



.SH "COMMAND LINE FLAGS"
The following are all the other commands and options supported by
\fBiplock(8)\fR.

.TP
\fB\-\-console\fR
Print the logs out to the console. This overrides the logger configuration
files. By default, the iplock tool writes to the console if it is a tty.

.TP
\fB\-\-debug\fR
Change the logger severity to the `debug' level. This command line option
changes the level of all the appenders configured for `iplock'.

This is useful to fully debug the \fB\-\-block\fR and \fB\-\-unblock\fR
command line options. When in this mode, the memory file used to add
or remove the IPs from the set is printed to the console.

.TP
\fB\-\-except\-stack\-collect\fR \fIno|yes|simple|complete\fR
Defines what exceptions are expected to collect from the stack.
Nearly all our exceptions are expected to stop a process. This command line
option gives you the ability to define how much information is to be collected
from the stack trace when that exception occurred. By default, it is set to
`yes' (which is the synomym of `simple'). With the logger, that exception
stack information can automatically be logged to your log file. Very useful
to debug issues in your software running on a remote server.

.TP
\fB\-f\fR, \fB\-\-force\\fR
Force the copy to happen even if the destination file already exists and
is newer than the source.

.TP
\fB\-\-force\-severity\fR \fIlevel\fR
Change the logger severity to this specific level. This new level is
applied to all the defined appenders. The level is changed whether it
is higher or lower than the current appender's level.

.TP
\fB\-\-log\-component\fR \fIname\fR...
Define one or more component name to filter the logs. Only logs with that
component are output, others are ignored. You can use the `!' (exclamation
mark) character in front of a name to exclude logs with that component.

.TP
\fB\-\-log\-config\fR \fIfilename\fR
Only load this very configuration file to setup the logger.

.TP
\fB\-\-log\-config\-path\fR \fIpath\fR
Define a path to search for log configuration files instead of using the
defaults.

.TP
\fB\-\-log\-file\fR \fIfilename\fR
Save the logs in this specific file instead of what is defined in the
configuration files.

.TP
\fB\-\-log\-severity\fR \fIlevel\fR
Change the severity to this level unless the appender already accepts logs
for a lower level. So for example, an appender setup to output logs with a
severity level of `error' or higher is affected by the `warning' level.
An appender setup to output logs with a severity level of `info' does not
changed when setting this command line option to `warning'.

.TP
\fB\-\-logger\-hide\-banner\fR
Request that the logger does not print the banner in the console. This is
particularly useful for command line tools (opposed to a service). The
`iplock' tool automatically turns this option on.

.TP
\fB\-\-logger\-plugin\-paths\fR \fIpath1:path2:...\fR
This option allows you to change the path(s) to the `snaplogger' plugins. You
can enter multiple paths by separating them with a colon (:).

.TP
\fB\-\-logger\-show\-banner\fR
Request that the logger prints its banner when it starts. This is useful
if you run a tool from a service and want to make sure the administrator
knows which version of the tool is being used.

.TP
\fB\-\-no\-log\fR
Turn off the logger so nothing gets printed out. This is somewhat similar
to a quiet or silent option that many Unix tools offer.

.TP
\fB\-r\fR, \fB\-\-recursive\fR
Copy files recursively dewscending though directories.

.TP
\fB\-\-syslog\fR [\fIidentity\fR]
Send the logs to the system `syslog'. If specified, the `identity' is used
along each message.

.TP
\fB\-\-trace\fR
Change the logger severity to the TRACE level. All appenders accept all the
logs that they receive.


.SH AUTHOR
Written by Alexis Wilke <alexis@m2osw.com>.
.SH "REPORTING BUGS"
Report bugs to <https://github.com/m2osw/iplock/issues>.
.br
iplock home page: <https://snapwebsites.org/project/iplock>.
.SH COPYRIGHT
Copyright \(co 2019-2024  Made to Order Software Corp.  All Rights Reserved
.br
License: GPLv3
.br
This is free software: you are free to change and redistribute it.
.br
There is NO WARRANTY, to the extent permitted by law.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR snaprfs (8)
